# What are we going to cover?: {

* Elastic Load Balancer:  a load-balancing service for Amazon Web Services (AWS) deployments. ELB automatically distributes incoming application traffic and scales resources to meet traffic demands. ELB helps an IT team adjust capacity according to incoming application and network traffic.

* Route53: a highly available and scalable cloud Domain Name System (DNS) web service. It is designed to give developers and businesses an extremely reliable and cost effective way to route end users to Internet applications by translating names like www.example.com into the numeric IP addresses like 192.0.

* Amazon Cloudfront :  is a fast content delivery network (CDN) service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with low latency, high transfer speeds, all within a developer-friendly environment.

* Relational Database service (RDS):  a web service that makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud. It provides cost-efficient, resizable capacity for an industry-standard relational database and manages common database administration tasks.

* Dyanmo DB: an Amazon Web Services database system that supports data structures and key-valued cloud services. It allows users the benefit of auto-scaling, in-memory caching, backup and restore options for all their internet-scale applications using DynamoDB.
}


# AWS Elastic Load Balancer Service{

* Quick Understanding: 
    - Distributes requests to underlying EC2 Instances.
    - The Elastic Load Balancer is a managed service
    - There are different types of Load Balancers in aws

* How it works / A User Case
	
    - Lets say you have an  ecommerce application with a lot of traffic coming due to a sale promotion. 

    - Your EC2 is running at 80% of 4CPU  making your page run slower for clients losing sales. 

    - To combat this you COULD change to a higher instance type of 8 CPU BUT that could cause software problems. 

    - What the Elastic Load Balancer does is it creates multiple of an EC2 instance and split users between the two for a single Web Application. 

WEB--------------------------------APPLICATION----------------------DEPLOYED

	                        |  Elastic  ||========= EC2 (50 USERS)		
        100 USER’S    ======|  Load      |
		                    |  Balancer ||========= EC2 (50 USERS)		

WEB--------------------------------APPLICATION----------------------DEPLOYED
	}





# Route 53{

* Quick Understanding
    - Register domain names.
    - Route traffic to resources hosted in AWS.
    - check the health of your resources.

* How it works / Use Case

    - Routes a .com .org ect domain through to an EC2 hosted website

    - Step : Create a hosted zone - website.com  (you can buy externally)

    - Step 2: Register the Name Server in the domain registrar

    - Step 3: Create a resources record in hosted zone 

WEB---APPLICATION----DEPLOYED-------------------- LINK -------USER/CLINET

    Web Application/ EC2 Instance ====== ROUTE 53 ========>  website.com  => Users

WEB---APPLICATION----DEPLOYED-------------------- LINK -------USER/CLINET


* Routing Policies

	- Simple Routing Policy: Used for a single resources
	- Failover Routing Policy: Used for active passive failover
	- Geolocation Routing Policy: Route traffic based on location to users 
	- Weighted Routing Policy: Route traffic to different resources based on weightage.
	- Latency Routing Policy:  Route traffic to the region that provides the best latency


* Helpful things to know
    - In AWS Route 53 you can purchase your own domain name but It’ll probably cost more than if you bought one from an external provider, I use namecheap.com

}



# AWS Cloudfront {

* A quick understanding 
	- Used for effective distribution of your content to users across the world
	- Distributes content with the help of edge locations.
	- Users receive content from the closets edge location. 

* Example / Use case

	|EC2 INSTANCE	| user in ohio region =>
	|WEB APPLICATION   | ========= User in Canada Region>
    |Deployed in Ohio Region|============================================user in europe>

    - When users use your application across the world in let's say Europe there will be reduced response time. That's what Edge Location is for  if your users want to access information from the EC2 when AWS Cloudfront is set up it will route that user to information stored in the closest Edge Location drastically reducing their response lag due to distance.

    |EC2 INSTANCE	| user in ohio region =>
	|WEB APPLICATION   |  User in Canada Region=>
    |AWS Cloudfront deploy |user in europe=>

* Process
	- A user tries to access a web page in your application
	- The request is routed to the nearest edge location
	- If the web content is in the cache of the edge location, it is sent to the user.
    - If the web content is not present (if this is the first user to access your website in that area), the edge server will make a request to the origin ( your EC2).
    - As soon as the first byte is received by the edge server, it starts seedning data to the user.
    - The data is then cached for future and future use ( cutting down on latency for users)
} 


# AWS Relational Database System (RDS) {

* Quick Understanding 
	- Service that allows you to set up a relational database in AWS.
	- Has support for MySQL, Oracle, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, and Microsoft SQL server. 
	- A lot of administration jobs are managed by AWS themselves.
		
	* Features 
		- You can scale the underlying instance hosting the database at any point if needed.
		- Monitoring aspects are in place through AWS Cloud Watch.
		- You can enable automated backups.
		- You can also create snapshots nnof your database at any point 

		* Enable High availability of your database by using the Multi-AZ feature.
		
		|Primary database   |				                                 | Second database|
		|   in only	one     | ===========auto updates, if Primary fails ====>| in	another  	|
        | availability zone	|				                                 | availability zone|

}


# AWS DynamoDB{
* Quick Understanding

*	INFOMATIVE LINKs
https://medium.com/better-programming/5-real-life-use-cases-for-dynamodb-a152a9d152e2
https://stackshare.io/stackups/amazon-dynamodb-vs-amazon-rds-for-postgresql#:~:text=With%20DynamoDB%2C%20you%20can%20offload,deployments%20in%20the%20cloud*%22.


* If you are going to perform complex queries on data do not use Dynamo DB

* When not to use DynamoDB: When multi-item or cross table transactions are required. When complex queries and joins are required. When real-time analytics on historic data is required.

	- Fully managed NoSQL database.
	- Provides better performance and better scalability.
	-You don't need to manage infrastructure.
	- In DynamoDB, you directly start working with tables.
	- Storage will automatically scale.
	- Each item is a collection of tables.


	- Read and Write Throughput,
    - this is primarily used to decide on the cost aspect for the table, here storage is not prime cost variable.
}


# AWS Cloudformation {
*A quick understanding 
	-Allows you to spin up infrastructure in AWS via templates
	-Good way to control your infrastructure via code
	-Helps with organization of AWS tools 

*How it works
	EC2 Instance ========{
	Load Balancer========{ Template} ===> Cloudformation ===> Stack “of applications with rules”
	Auto Scaling Group=={
Link:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Sh9OySCyb4
}
