 # What is Amazon Web Services?
   The Largest Cloud Computing Service started in 2002

 * What is cloud computing?
  cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet 

Started With:
   Elastic Compute Cloud Service- creates virtual servers on the cloud
   Simple Storage Service- object storage available in AWS
   Relational database Service- Host a relational database my SQL
   Virtual Private Cloud Service- create a isolated network in AWS
 
* AWS Regions and Availability Zones {
AWS has regions across the world that can be used to host resources.
     	They keep expanond by adding more data centers across the world.
     	What could influence your decision as to where you host your resources.
     	Where are your users USA, EUROPE ASIA that's what region you'd host
    
* AWS Regions and Availability Zones
       When you create resources in AWS, they are created in the underlying data center.
       AWS is responsible for maintaining the data center.
       The customer is not responsible for the underlying physical infrastructure(on site)
	
* The Breakdown:
		1 Region can have (multiple) Availability Zones 
		1 Availability Zone can have 3 Data Centers 
			This breakdown is to increase resilience if on availability zone goes down 
			Your site will still be up
}

* AWS Support Plans: Developer -  Business  - Enterprise {

	Different features like varying response time to outages
	With Enterprise Support plan you get an account manager
	
Price is massively different 
}

# What Is The Well Architected Framework
{
* After designing and reviewing thousands of customers’ architectures on AWS, AWS has identified best practices and core strategies for architecting systems in the cloud. 

* The framework is based on 5 pillars(mnemonic: CROPS):
- Cost Optimization
- Reliability 
- Operational Excellence
- Performance Efficiency
- Security


# (C)ost Optimization
* The ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lower price point.

# (R)eliability 
* The ability to use systems to recover from infrastructure or service disruptions, dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand, and mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues. 
	
# (O)perational Excellence
* The ability to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures
	
		
# (P)erformance Efficiency 
* The ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements, and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve. 

# (S)ecurity
* The ability to protect information, systems, and assets while delivering business value through risk assessments and mitigation strategies.
}